Big Data Computing: Written exam: example 1                                             1




                                     PART 1


  1. [3 points] Consider the execution of a MapReduce algorithm on a cluster with 10
     machines, each equipped with a RAM of 8 GB and a disk of 128 GB. Before and after
     the Map and Reduce Phases of each round, data are stored into a HDFS built on the
     union of the disks. Let ML and MA be the algorithm’s local and aggregate space.
     What are the maximum values (in GB) for ML and MA which ensure a successful
     execution of the algorithm?

  2. [3 points] The coreset-based MapReduce algorithm for k-means computes the final
     centers of the clusters by running a sequential algorithm A on a weighted coreset T .

     (a) How are the points in T computed?
     (b) For each point q ∈ T , what does its weight w(q) represent?

  3. [4 points] Consider the execution of Reservoir Sampling on an unbounded stream
     Σ = x1 , x2 , . . .. For t > m, let St be the set of m elements maintained by the
     algorithm after processing xt , and suppose that xt has been added to St . For an
     element xi with i < t, determine probability that xi ∈ St , given that xt ∈ St .

  4. [3 points] Let P be a set of points from a metric space (M, d). Define the (c, r)-
     Approximate Near Neighbor Search problem and explain how it differs from the exact
     r-Near Neighbor Search problem.
Big Data Computing: Written exam: example 1                                                  2




                                       PART 2


  1. [7 points] Let P be a dataset containing N outcomes of slot machines, represented
     by the key-value pairs (i, (si , oi )), for 0 ≤ i < N , where si is a slot machine, and oi
     is an outcome of the machine. An outcome o is called frequent for a slot machine s
     if P contains ≥ N/50 pairs with value (s, o), and a slot machine s is called biased if
     there is at least a frequent outcome o for s.

      (a) Design a 3-round MapReduce algorithm that for every biased slot machine s
          returns exactly one pair (s, null). (HINT: in the first 2 rounds, compute the
          pairs (s, o) where o is frequent for s.)
      (b) Analyze the local and aggregate space required by your algorithm.

     For full score, your algorithm must require o(N ) local space and O (N ) aggregate
     space.

  2. [6 points] Consider a stream Σ = x1 , x2 , . . . , xn of n measurements from sensors.
     Each measurement xi is a pair (ki , wi ), where ki is the ID of a sensor and wi is the
     value of the measurement (an integer). For a given sensor u occurring in Σ define
                                                X
                                   fu =                   wi ,
                                            (ki ,wi )∈Σ : ki =u


     i.e., P
           the aggregate measurements taken by u. Briefly devise a space-efficient estimator
     for u (fu )2 , where the sum is over all sensors occurring in the stream. Give an
     intuition about whether the estimator is biased or unbiased.



                                                                       Total time: 2 hours
