Big Data Computing: Written exam: example 4                                              1


Your Name and ID:

Your class:  A (Prof. A. Pietracaprina)              B (Prof. F. Silvestri)


REMINDERS:

  • Write your Name and ID on every sheet that you return

  • Excessively long answers will be penalized

  • TOTAL TIME: 2 hours



                                      PART 1


  1. [3 points] Consider a MapReduce algorithm A that uses local space ML and aggregate
     space MA . In order to run A successfully on a cluster, what characteristics must the
     cluster have?

  2. [3 points] Consider the execution of MR-Farthest-First Traversal to compute a solu-
     tion to k-center for a set P of N points. Briefly describe Round 1 and Round 2, and
     analyze their local space requirements as a function of the number ` of partitions.

  3. [4 points] Consider a set P of n points from RD stored in a hash table T based on a
     hash function h randomly selected from a (p1 , p2 , c, r)-locality sensitive family H.

     (a) Explain how the hash table T can be used for answering a (c, r)-Approximate
         Near Neighbor Search query.
     (b) Show that the query requires O (Dnp2 ) time in expectation.

  4. [3 points] Answer the following questions regarding the streaming framework.

     (a) What are the performance metrics used to evaluate a streaming algorithm?
     (b) As seen in Homework 3, the Spark Stream provides the items in batches. Briefly
         explain how each batch is represented and how a standard streaming algorithm
         (which processes one item at the time) can be implemented using Spark Stream.
Big Data Computing: Written exam: example 4                                                           2




                                           PART 2


  1. [7 points] Let P be a set of N points in a metric space partitioned into k clusters
     C1 , C2 , . . . , Ck , with respective centers c1 , c2 , . . . , ck . Each point x ∈ P is initially
     represented by the key-value pair (IDx , (x, ix )), where IDx is a distinct key in [0, N −1],
     and ix is the index of the cluster of x. For a cluster Ci , its furthest center is the center
     c ∈ {c1 , c2 , . . . , ck } that maximizes the average distance
                                              1 X
                                                       d(x, c).
                                             |Ci | x∈C
                                                      i


      (a) Design an efficient 2-round MapReduce algorithm that given P computes the k
          pairs (i, c), where 1 ≤ i ≤ k and c is the furthest center for Ci . Assume that k
          is a constant and that the centers c1 , c2 , . . . , ck are global variables.
      (b) Analyze the local and aggregate space of your algorithm. (For full score, local
          space must be o(N ) and aggregate space O (N ).)

  2. [6 points] Let Σ be a stream of colored items (ui , γi ), with 1 ≤ i ≤ n, where ui is an
     item from a universe U , and γi is its color (red or blue). We call fu,red the frequency
     of the pair (u, red) in Σ, and fu,blue the frequency of the pair (u, blue) in Σ. Also, for
     every u ∈ U define its weighted frequency fu0 as

                                                  fu,red fu,blue
                                          fu0 =         +        .
                                                    2      3
      (a) Describe how to obtain one d × w array C of counters which can be employed
          to provide, for any u ∈ U , an unbiased estimate f˜0 u of its weighted frequency fu0 .
      (b) Consider an item u ∈ U and suppose that in row j of C, no other item uses the
          same cell as u. Does this row provide the exact fu0 ? Motivate your answer.
